UniformItemsLayout (#75)
MicrosoftDocs/CommunityToolkit: docs/maui/layouts/UniformItemsLayout.md

---
title: UniformItemsLayout - .NET MAUI Community Toolkit
author: VladislavAntonyuk
description: The UniformItemsLayout is a layout where all rows and columns have the same size.
ms.date: 04/12/2022
---

# UniformItemsLayout

[!INCLUDE [docs under construction](../includes/preview-note.md)]

> The `UniformItemsLayout` is a layout where all rows and columns have the same size.

Reviewer: Similar to the xamarin/maui docs:

```suggestion
The `UniformItemsLayout` is a layout that organizes its children in rows and columns. Each child view will have the same width and height.
```

> ## Building an UniformItemsLayout
> 
> An `UniformItemsLayout` can be created in XAML or C#:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building a UniformItemsLayout

A `UniformItemsLayout` can be created in XAML or C#:
```

             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             xmlns:toolkit="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2022/maui/toolkit"
             x:Class="MyProject.MyContentPage">

    <toolkit:UniformItemsLayout>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Blue" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Yellow" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Red" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Black" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
    </toolkit:UniformItemsLayout>
    
</ContentPage>
```

### C#

```csharp
using CommunityToolkit.Maui.Views;

var page = new ContentPage
{
    Content = new UniformItemsLayout
    {
        Children = 
        {
            new BoxView { HeightRequest = 25, WidthRequest = 25, BackgroundColor = Colors.Blue },
            new BoxView { HeightRequest = 25, WidthRequest = 25, BackgroundColor = Colors.Yellow },
            new BoxView { HeightRequest = 25, WidthRequest = 25, BackgroundColor = Colors.Red },
            new BoxView { HeightRequest = 25, WidthRequest = 25, BackgroundColor = Colors.Black }
        }
    }
};
```

> ## Customizing an UniformItemsLayout
> 
> An `UniformItemsLayout` allows to limit the maximum number of columns and rows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customizing a UniformItemsLayout

A `UniformItemsLayout` allows the number of columns and rows to be limited through the use of the `MaxRows` and `MaxColumns` properties:
```

> A `UniformItemsLayout` allows the number of columns and rows to be limited through the use of the `MaxRows` and `MaxColumns` properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `UniformItemsLayout` allows the number of columns and rows to be limited through the use of the `MaxRows` and `MaxColumns` properties.

In the below example we limit the `MaxColumns` and `MaxRows` to 1, this means that only one `BoxView` will be visible on the screen. In this scenario it is the last item added that will be visible. So in the example below it will be the black `BoxView`.
```

### XAML

```xml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             xmlns:toolkit="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2022/maui/toolkit"
             x:Class="MyProject.MyContentPage">

    <toolkit:UniformItemsLayout MaxRows="1" MaxColumns="1">
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Blue" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Yellow" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>
        <BoxView BackgroundColor="Red" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>

>         <BoxView BackgroundColor="Black" HeightRequest="25" WidthRequest="25"/>

Reviewer: I am intrigued by this example, what will render? Blue and Black?

Author: It should be only black

Reviewer: Damn! For some reason I read it as there being 2 cells in the grid :facepalm:. Perhaps we can add a little note to explain what happens in this scenario?
